# Contributing guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OTIS-WEB server!

Part of my agenda is to encourage my students to
[learn how to code](https://web.evanchen.cc/techsupport.html),
so consequently I want to be welcoming of people who are learning the ropes.
Don't feel shy! I am happy to help you get up to speed
and work with you as you pick things up.

## Getting started

### Pre-reading

If you're totally new to development world,
it's probably a good idea to learn how a bunch of tools work.
[There's a nice series by MIT](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/) to this end.
You'll likely want to go thorugh the first six of the 2020 lectures,
except possibly for the third one about Vim.
(I'm a die-hard Vim user myself, but I think it's too much to learn at once; pick up Vim later.)

### Fork

Before you get started,
you will actually want to create your own *fork* of OTIS-WEB.
This is a bit counter-intuitive,
but essentially the reason is that I own OTIS-WEB,
so if you want to make edits of any sort,
it has to be on a *copy* owned by you first --- that's a fork.

Follow the
[fork instructions here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).
When you're done, you should have your own copy
of OTIS-WEB owned by you,
that you can edit however you want.

### Installation

Follow the [README](README.mkd) instructions.

### Claiming tasks

If you haven't already, create a free account on [GitHub](https://github.com/).

The list of things to-do is sorted with two different views:

* The [Projects](https://github.com/vEnhance/otis-web/projects?query=is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc)
	view shows the set of tasks to do sorted by bounty.
* The [issues page](https://github.com/vEnhance/otis-web/issues)
	lists all the issues, including those with no bounty set yet.

To claim a task, you should go to the corresponding
and leave a comment that you'd like to work on it.
A moderator (well, Evan) will then assign the task to you.

Alternatively, you can also create a new issue if you have
an idea for a feature request or a bug to report.

## Writing the code

Now that you have an issue assigned to you, you can start working on it!
There will be a lot of poking around the website to understand
how things are working, and it may be overwhelming at first.
Don't sweat it too much.
Most tasks only require you to change small parts of the code,
which you can do in isolation while ignoring the other parts for now.

### Style

Your code should conform to the style of the rest of the OTIS.
The main irregular thing about this project is that
it uses tabs for indentation. Sorry not sorry.

The database uses the `yapf` for linting and formatting,
to ensure the uniformity of style across the repository.

To preserve your sanity you may optionally configure
your editor to automatically apply `yapf` after each save:
if you're using a sufficiently sophisticated editor,
you can probably configure it to do so.

### Semantic checking

If you're new to development, skip this section.
I'll talk to you more about it later.

The OTIS-WEB repository is heavily type-checked.
We use `pyflakes` and `pyright` are to catch type errors and other issues.
This means type annotations are usually required for function parameters
or when initializing empty lists or dictionaries.

You should be able to use `pyflakes` in pure Python.
To use `pyright`, you'll need to do a separate installation process:
follow [the README](https://github.com/Microsoft/pyright#installation).

If your editor supports lanugage server protcols,
you should be able to catch these errors inline.
If your editor doesn't, consider switching ;)

### Tests

You *must* write tests for any new functionality you add.
Read the files called `*/tests.py` and do as the Romans do.

It's not a bad idea to write the tests before the code.

## Submitting

Once you have a first draft ready for Evan to look at,
you should submit a pull request!

If you followed the instructions earlier,
you should have your own fork of OTIS-WEB.
Commit your changes to this fork,
and then [submit a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).

When you submit a pull request,
GitHub will automatically run several checks on the code
to make sure it conforms with style,
has proper type annotations,
and does not fail any of the written unit tests.
If this is your first time doing this sort of thing,
it's likely that at least one of these checks will fail.
Don't freak out; I'll help you through getting the tests to pass.

## For people with some software experience

### Pre-commit hooks

The script `./lint.sh` will run all tests.
You might like to do something like

```bash
echo "./lint.sh" > .git/hooks/pre-commit
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
```

which will prevent you from pushing a commit
that isn't going to pass the tests on GitHub.

### Docker

If you're using Docker, @AmoleR has created Dockerfile.dev that works well enough.
Something to note is that the last line (creation of `superuser`) doesn't actually
work right now due to the interactive nature of django's default, so you have to
manually run it. To spin up the image, run

```sh
docker build -f Dockerfile.dev -t otis-web .
docker run \
	-v $(pwd):/app \ # This links your current edits into the docker
	-p 8000:8000   \ # This maps ports. Change the first number if you wish.
	-it            \ # Connect terminal stdin/stdout with docker
	otis-web sh
```

Once in there, use `poetry run python ...` to run any python scripts. Also make sure
that you start the runserver with `poetry run python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000`,
as this will connect to the port you put in the `docker run` command. If you changed
it from port 8000 in the `docker run` command, **DO NOT** change it here - instead, just
go to `localhost:PORT`, where `PORT` is the specified port (not 8000 if you changed it).
